chore: version 1.9.0 (#984)
plentymarkets/plentyshop-pwa: docs/changelog/changelog_en.md

# Changelog PlentyONE Shop

## v1.9.0 (2025-01-23) <a href="https://github.com/plentymarkets/plentyshop-pwa/compare/v1.8.0...v1.9.0" target="_blank" rel="noopener"><b>Overview of all changes</b></a>

### New

- The [Nuxt security module](https://nuxt-security.vercel.app/) has been added to the web app.
- The web app is now equipped to [render components from a module](https://pwa-docs.plentymarkets.com/guide/how-to/module/inject-components) in designated areas of the shop.

> - The shop now has a dedicated page for legal information regarding shipping.

Reviewer: Isn't it more like users can configure a category from which to take the markup for the shipping information page, which is then automatically linked? Also what's the default URL of that, if it's configured? @abocsan-plenty

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The shop now has a dedicated legal information page for shipping information. You can link a category inside the Online Store Section of the Shops Configuration. The template configured on that category is used for the pages content. The URL for the page is /shipping.
```

- In the checkout, shipping providers now include expected delivery dates.

> - Category pages now contain robots information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The configured robots value on a category in the Terra back end, is now used for the robots meta tag of that category in the front end.
```

- Product pages now contain canonical URLs.

> - The recommended products now optionally include a pretitle, title, subtitle, and description.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The recommended products block now optionally includes a pretitle, title, subtitle, and description.
```

### 👷 Changed

- The `UiHeroCarousel` template now displays the provided image as a banner across the width of the page. The component now also contains additional settings.
  - _Experimental_: The carousel can now use [Blaze Slider](https://blaze-slider.dev/) instead of [SwiperJS](https://swiperjs.com/). This may have an impact on performance and Core Web Vitals. We're still evaluation which library to prefer. At the moment, it's possible to toggle between them with a runtime configuration.
- The `UiMediaCard` component has been renamed to `UiImageText`. The template has been updated to always reserve space for an image. The text-only variation has been extracted to `UiTextCard`.
- The Newsletter now uses the template JSON for configuration instead of the runtime configuration.
- The save button in the editor is now disabled if no changes have been made to the template or if the template is invalid.
- Updated cookie handling for PayPal: PayPal functionality now relies on an essential cookie, removing the need for user consent to enable it.

### 🩹 Fixed

> - The price now always displays an asterisk to refer to VAT information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Prices now always displays an asterisk to refer to additional VAT and shipping information
```
